# Roadmap
Chisels & Bits 2 is still actively being developed, here follows the roadmap for features to be added in each alpha/beta. If you have feedback for features that you feel should be higher priority and added sooner, make an issue and let me know!

Firstly, a general note on which minecraft version will be developed against. The answer is simple: the newest version available. C&B2 won't be backported to older versions and will be updated to newer versions whenever possible. Specifically for 1.15 I will be waiting for an alpha or two to see what version Forge decides to support long-term. If Forge decides to stay on 1.14 until 1.16 comes out I'll keep C&B2 on 1.14 until the first betas are done so there is a version of C&B2 available for 1.14 modpacks.

The alphas and betas will be released to curseforge whenever a significant new set of features has been added. Snapshots might be released through github releases whenever there are no obvious bugs or crashes. Do note no releases will be published to curseforge until a large portion of C&B1's features have been readded, once performance is decent and the mod is stable.

## Alphas
#### Alpha 1 - 3
Alpha's 1 through 3 have seen everything except the model creation code being rewritten from scratch or overhauled significantly. The following features have been added in these alphas:
- Chisel; with all item modes, the way the chisel left-/right click work has been changed significantly. _Sidenote: I'm open to re-adding the exact behaviour as it worked in C&B1 if people feel it worked better. I want to improve the workflow and make the mod even easier to use._
- Bit Bag; stores bits and is used to select which bit typ to place
- Tape Measure; implemented early as it shared much code with the drawn region item mode
- Morphing Bit; replacement for the old bit item, handy to put in the off-hand to see which bit type you currently have selected
- Recipes and recipe book entries
- Statistics for tracking the total amount of chisel uses
- Chiseled Block; though only in rendering and drops. It has no behaviour yet.

Now for the future alpha's and a rough outline of which features need to be added, all features need adding eventually but they have been ordered in terms of importance and blocked together by similarity or code being shared.

#### Alpha 4
Alpha 4 will focus on finishing the behaviour of all current features.
- Adding placement code for the chiseled block to allow merging two chiseled blocks, off-grid placement and more.
- Finishing the code behind the undo/redo buttons that were added in alpha 3.
- Adding rotation to the chiseled block
- Adding the wrench; as it also uses the rotation code
- Item descriptions in JEI
- Rewriting the way rendering tasks are distributed and when blocks are re-rendered
- Full rewrite to the way the chisel puts chiseled bits into bags and determines durability
- Allow other mods to make custom menu actions and item modes for existing items or their own items

#### Alpha 5
Alpha 5 is planned to address all currently standing issues that hold the mod back from being usable by everyone.
- Improvements to the way blocks are saved to disk allowing for better crossworld compatiblity
- Compatiblity with optifine (at least fixing major issues)
- Multiplayer support for the mod
- Make all item models generated by datagen instead of handmade.
- **The ability to load 1.12 C&B1 or 1.12 LittleTiles worlds and have them automatically converted to C&B2

** This is a big maybe and depends on how Forge does legacy compatibility that I still need to research. But I do like the idea of allowing all 1.12 mods using either C&B1 or LittleTiles to be converted so you can submit your previous creations to the workshop eventually.

#### Alpha 6
Alpha 6 will be the last alpha to finish all features, a 7th alpha might also happen.
- Adding the bit beaker; including adding full functionality to liquid bits
- Adding the palette; including adding transparency to bits
- Finishing light level rendering and adding a feature to allow players to make the light level emitted by a block exactly what they want in every scenario.

## Betas
All features to be added to the betas are not separated into in which beta they will be yet but this list is ordered by priority:
(they are seperated into categories however)

##### Patterns
- Add patterns including all modes like the mirror pattern and the negative pattern
- The pattern binder, a large book in which you can store all your patterns easily.
- Pattern Table; a block similar to the cartography table to fulfill a couple features relating to patterns that fit better in a custom block, like mirroring the pattern, merging patterns or building chiseled blocks from a pattern.

##### Lingering Features
- Add back the saw item including all crafting recipe related features
- GUIs for the bit bag, beaker and palette.
- Allow placing levers, pressure plates, tripwire hooks, etc. onto the sides of chiseled blocks where appropriate.

##### Blueprints
- The blueprint, a new item that allows you to store large areas up to 16x16x16 in contrast to the pattern that can only store single blocks.
- Blueprints can be selected using a system similar to the Create mod's schematic selection. (I think their system is really neat and user friendly, they borrowed the radial menu, so I'll borrow their schematic selection system, with credit of course)

##### Workshop
- The workshop with which you can upload blueprints or even chiseled armor sets depending on if/when Extra Bit Manipulation is updated.
- A workbench where you can view downloaded blueprints and print them onto a blueprint.

#### Beta n
This list consists of features that will be added to betas eventually but have such a low priority that they have no set date.
- More statistics for tracking various statistics like special operations (rotation, undo/redo) performed, patterns made or blueprints downloaded
- More configuration options
- Support for more languages
- API for other mods to register their blocks as valid to chisel
- 